hey guys we got the cactus in the shot
but not the poster posters off there oh
oh oh it can just barely see the poster
in case you think the cactus and the
poster should be on camera for each and
every deer recording this well live
streaming filmed in front of a live
studio audience
about our CEO Broadcasting Corporation I
got a email from an old friend somebody
who knew me when I was a teenager and
you know different questions came up and
of course this conversation
I was asked simply or not so simply how
is it that languages the study of
languages has become such a huge thing
in my life given that I was not
interested in these things at all when I
was a child nor when I was a teenager
good question and it's a question not
that many people could ask me and you
know I could answer this in a number of
different ways the most efficient way
for me to answer it is actually to talk
about the importance of evaluation in
university education in Canada now
evaluation ultimately means what kind of
grade you get what you get a or a B or C
and how they decide the difference
between an A or a B or C but it shapes
math education in a much more profound
way evaluation relates to what job
skills you're actually learning if any
what real-world skills you're learning
and being tested on a university
evaluation shapes the way the lectures
are given the way the assignments are
handed out and collected and so on you
know are you being graded on how well
you can write an essay are you being
graded on how well you can repeat back
to the professor the professor's own
opinions as stated in class are you
being graded on how well you can take
notes on things data to verbal in class
and then later reproduce those same
ideas on a final exam I don't mean this
overly cynically I really mean this in
broad open it away however my experience
is university education in Canada was
incredibly incredibly negative and I
found myself in a situation in every
department I looked at whether it was
politics anthropology history a whole
bunch of different disciplines in the
humanities
I found myself the situation where all
of these departments one the one hand
not not providing me with any possible
career path no actual job skills no
useful training but they were also
grading me almost entirely on my ability
to flatter people on my ability to
flatter the professor on my ability to
repeat back opinion the professor wanted
here primarily the opinions given in
class or pointed out in the textbook and
assigned readings what have you and a
lot of I mean you know something I
figured out soon figured out relatively
early in my university education but
bitterly I had to be reminded of again
and again I had one kind of crushing
experience after another
I remember once you know University one
of these world big classes so you'd
write essays or exams they wouldn't even
be graded by the professor they'd be
graded by some teaching assessment and I
remember I wrote one on the politics of
Canada's possible separation from Quebec
so the political possibility that Quebec
would whatsoever this Canon
I wrote this quite intelligent little
essay this is you know this is an
in-class you know exam so you're not
citing sources but you're writing an
essay with a footnote so to speak I made
a series of points about how the way
Quebec perceives the United States and
how they imagine their own foreign
policy if they became an independent
country because as soon as the separate
from Canada then they need to sign a
free trade agreement the United States
suddenly they were independent you know
alliances so to speak the relationship
with the United States but we're living
in the shadow of the United States much
more directly as soon as they get out
from under the shadow of Canada so I
wrote about it as a sort of three-way as
a diplomatic triangle if you like this
is slightly original thought and the
person creating yes they said look this
is really very intelligent but it's not
repeating back the points that were in
the textbook or the lectures so I can't
give you a neck as I wasn't the question
you know the question was something like
you know explain Quebec shifting can
explain the ambivalent and shifting
perspective of Quebecers on the
possibility of independence during these
few decades and I did that but symbol
during these decades what really changed
not the way the québécois perceive
English being Canadians but how they
perceived Americans because American
form so was intelligent si but that's
only one example but that really does
get to the crux of the matter I was in
courses and I got to say this about
political sciences discipline I think
it's true of several other disciplines
but political science is an example of
the discipline where if you are not
keeping it all the way real if you are
not being 110 percent honest then it's
worthless
then it's garbage you know you can't
really have the discipline of political
science political science is discipline
without this one you can't you can't ask
those questions unless you're really
open to hearing more than one answer you
can't ask those kinds of questions
engage with those discussions in the
classroom and the lectures and the
assigned readings what you need to do in
political science requires a very very
high level of scrutiny self-discipline
self-awareness self-criticism honesty
honesty of Avoyelles because otherwise
it's just propaganda right otherwise
it's it's the study of propaganda and
many many times I have pointed out that
my professors were wrong sometimes in
class sometimes after class I was in
front of discussion many many times the
point of my professors were factually
wrong although important issues you know
in history where I was able to present
you know come back the next class the
statistics and say look you claimed this
last class here's the out here of the
actual numbers whatever it is and it's
not easy on the ego of the other
professors so that discipline itself is
especially sensitive but I know what's
other people in other other parts
demands people who have were in English
literature or French literature or
anthropology or history or what-have-you
and they had a lot of the same
experiences where they at some point or
another at the crushing realization what
I'm being evaluated on here is one
totally subjective two totally
counterproductive for me as a student it
isn't teaching me job skills it isn't
training me to be good at something it's
not even training me to be good at
writing essays it's not training me to
be good at delivering lectures myself or
doing original research see original
research that for me was another turning
point was when I really understood
what is original research and then the
role of translation the role of learning
languages in original research that was
another turning point that came pretty
late in my university education but
basically university education Canada
was so terrible and I couldn't do any of
the things I wanted to do and the whole
system evaluation the content of what I
was being taught was garbage the way it
was being evaluated ascribes and the way
it was being evaluated influenced all
the other elements of the experience you
know of what the discipline is of what
the Diploma means and so on this is a
disaster you know and what I figured out
was languages are not like that if I
write an exam for learning Chinese or
learning ancient Greek or learning poly
or Sanskrit or Creon a jib way or
Cambodian I saw the discipline of
learning languages as the one element of
university education that was not
entirely corrupted by post-modernism or
just corrupted by the laziness and
self-indulgence of who professors are
and how they want to make money and what
academia had become a Canada I should
throw in a caveat here real quick I
didn't work in the Department of
astronomy or agriculture or architecture
all themselves the letter A I also
didn't work in zoology I mean I had
nothing to do with there are all kinds
of other disciplines including other
pure sciences and math you know where
what I've just said may not be true at
all
maybe the department of theoretical
mathematics is just wonderful University
oh no I have nothing to do with that I'm
only talking about the department's I
had experience with but I did have
experience of the great many departments
including of course also religious
studies everything I've just warned you
about political science it can be even
worse in religious studies you know this
question of are you actually doing
original research are you actually
learning something useful for you as a
student for you in your career path or
are you just coming to a classroom where
your point is to figure out the bizarre
and quite possibly eccentric beliefs of
your professor and then repeat back to
that professor what they want to hear
which may not be what you believe but
inky's what is going to teach you what
do you learn from that
after after four years and tens of
thousands of dollars what action do you
learn from that process in religious
studies and believe me that can be even
worse in Buddhism than it is in
Christianity or Judaism I have
experience I have a lot of experience
linked to to Buddhist studies and of
course now he stations etc so look came
to a point where I thought I'm
interested in an educator a form of
Education where the evaluation is based
on objective criteria when you sit down
to write that exam whether it is
increase or Cambodian either your answer
is right or it's wrong and the question
is not how much can you flatter the
professor or how much do you happen to
agree with the the professor's put a few
etcetera etcetera I don't want to know
about that so within you know the
various kind of missions I had in life
that this kind of mandated or ethical
interests add whether you talk about the
humanitarian impulse I have one do
humanitarian work the political impulses
I have or indeed the interests that drew
me towards study of Buddhism and
Buddhist philosophy or philosophy in
general European philosophy but is cloth
sitter or the drew me towards First
Nations their politics their languages
in every case I want to be on the horrid
linguistic side of that field of study I
did not want to be writing exams or
having disputes to the professors that
were based on their personal religious
convictions and give you I want to be
able to establish my own authority in
the field by doing original research
original research that could be
evaluated and valued could be recognized
as being original and important because
of its basis in language its basis in
fieldwork its basis in politics history
facts facts facts access at all
objective facts were these no but the
objective facts in the study of history
and politics or the objective facts in
language and original research new
translations etc etc that was where one
to beat will clog answer on that I knew
that with the PhD and he delivered a
paper at a conference there only four
people in the audience of this
conference it was very common she
delivers this paper is basically one
professor of tera vaada Buddhism there I
know who the professor is and I think
he's an idiot but anyway that's also a
problem with academia
you get you get one bad one bad egg or
one bad [ __ ] in a position of power
and they hold on to it for decades and
the field can't move forward until they
retire retire or drop dead of them
anyway so he gives his presentation
which was about the meaning of a
particular word in Pali he was arguing
that this word really does not mean
meditation I agree with him with a
particular world word and he was giving
examples where the meaning of the word
was totally unrelated to meditation
including where the meaning of the word
was a list of things in a summary so
this is a purely linguistic argument as
to the etymology and the usage and he's
quoting passages and you know he's got
the overhead projector and he's showing
these examples where this word has some
other meanings that would maybe
challenge you know at the end of his
presentation it's not like there's a
huge audience applauding there are four
people there or something and the senior
professor sitting there says oh that's a
very interesting presentation but that's
impossible and the guy just said that it
was his religious conviction that this
word had this one meeting so any new
linguistic research the facts of the
case were were irrelevant to his fate
and believe me you can go through peer
review it's like that - and so on and so
forth so look the strength of languages
in a language based approach to research
whether it's philosophy or politics or
religion or history or we want to say
when I was getting involved with the
Korean the a jib I'm white in case you
hadn't noticed I or you can say I'm
Jewish if you don't count Jewish people
as white matter of perspective I have
absolutely no link by blood or heritage
your upbringing to the Korean me jibley
I just had the misfortune to be born in
Canada and thus some part of the you
know legacy of British the British
Empire colonialism that destroyed their
civilizations languages how am I going
to make a positive contribution in that
field in that struggle it's not going to
be because I'm charming you're not going
to charm your way into those communities
and for me it's not going to be because
I sing and dance some people it is some
people get involved the arts within
First Nations community you're a great
you know literally you're a great singer
and you do live gigs you can do concert
tours in First Nations
these in remote you know reservations
and what have you you can you can charm
you way in you can get involved by being
an entertainer but being a musician or a
dancer some of that sure or by being a
patron of the Arts you're maybe or
someone who buys First Nations sculpture
art someone who sets up concerts and
traditional dance competition sure there
are there are people get involved all
those ways and there are people get
involved cuz they're oil executives
right for me a way to have something
that's objectively evaluated on
objective criteria as I say we're the
evaluation for me as a student I can
prove that I'm a scholar or that I'm a
good student or whatever that assign
contribute where it's verifiable the
only way I saw to do that was to the
language and frankly that's the same
thing I'd say about the Cambodians I
says people all the time with Cambodians
or lotions so these days you look I
wasn't born here I have no connection in
this place I have no right to do
humanitarian work here so how you can
get your foot in the door it's not going
to because I'm charming you I always
reminded people were doing humanitarian
work like in Laos Cambodia Thailand
I said look never forget these people
didn't invite you here that's very very
important to remember I mean unless they
did invite you if you're actually on a
curry reservation does the Korean bar
you there you're allowed us because a
lot of people value that that's
different but most of us show up
uninvited and for me the fact that like
when I sat in Laos Laos Cambodia even
here in Yunnan I had handwriting in the
local image net excellent handwriting
and lotion I also have handwriting in
the ancient scriptural language in Pali
if you were blown away by that and right
away that opened doors for me oh wow
you had the level of commitment to
really study our language to really
study reading and writing our language
Wow
now you're welcome we're inviting you in
we want to talk to you and literally it
would change the political discourse
even if we're talking about sensitive
political issues suddenly people feel
they can trust you they see you've got a
level of commitment engagement to them
their language their culture their
history and in my case it was both
ancient history and modern history was
doing the ancient language would be like
if you're in some part of Europe and
you're showing you both know ancient
Greek and modern Greek or and moderate
ancient Latin and modern Romanian I was
both doing poly and in the modern
languages of Laos Cambodia Thailand etc
so that's something that's object
real that shows my value as a scholar
much much realer than having a PhD
frankly and that open doors and
establishes my place politically my
opportunity to learn positive and you
know I work for a relatively short time
on Korea in a jib way but I saw that
happen too when I sat down with First
Nations people and I could show them
either my handwriting reduced in
speeches talk to them and show them you
know the little bit I could speak Cree
nahin Leland completely changes the way
they perceive me although they do that
man they perceive me as a white man that
perceived me as an outsider which is
quite right I'm not pretending to be an
insider but I'm an outsider who can
demonstrate that level of engagement
commitment etc I'm already a white man
has proven to them I really care about
you
and your history and your politics I
really care about hearing your voice I'm
not just here to preach to you whether
that's preaching political solutions
preaching politics or in the Buddhist
context preaching Buddhism I'm really
here to listen to you and I care so much
about your perspective that I've put in
the hard work you're lame so yeah
politically that's crucial great so this
is a short story long at this point but
yeah if the quality of education in
Canada were better I would have never
gotten on that path it was really
because of the appallingly poor quality
of education at the University of
Toronto in every department I was ever
in also a number of other universities
in Canada that have been involved with
appallingly low
I felt that left me no better
alternative no other alternative I could
see aside from going to language
education and trying to make languages
you know the platform for my political
engagement my philosophical engagement
my humanitarian engagement the world and
I was hoping it could also be a platform
for my career it's utterly failed at
that so you can see by other videos
still today it's a wide open question of
how it is in this life I'm ever going to
own a living how it is in this life I'm
never going to earn them with it
get me up